Levels of bullying, victimisation and school violence in  SA are among the highest in the world,  placing a  heavy  burden on the mental health of children. In general,  children in  SA are under far more strain than  children in most  countries and they often live in fear. This is according to the latest Child Gauge, which notes that children in SA presented with the lowest scores for feeling safe in comparison to other countries. More than 10%  felt  unsafe at home, more than 13% at school and more than 30% in their neighbourhood and community. These  are some of the  findings presented in the  Child Gauge — edited by Mark Tomlinson, Sharon Kleintjes and Lori Lake of the Children’s Institute at the University of Cape Town. It was launched on Wednesday and focuses specifically on mental health, which is an ongoing problem for SA youth, but one which has been  worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic. Children  face fear in many aspects of their lives and this  has an effect on mental health. According to Linda Richter, emeritus professor from the University of the Witwatersrand, “In a country beset by poverty, inequality, social exclusion and violence, our most important responsibility is to our children and adolescents. We need to identify those who face difficulties early on and try to rectify or ameliorate these problems so that children can continue their lifelong journey with strength and resources.” As the country deals with the fallout of the pandemic, the situation has worsened. “The  Covid-19 pandemic has intensified pressures on children and adolescents and, as a result, a whole generation’s mental health and wellbeing has been jeopardised,” writes advocate Bongani Majola, chair of the  SA Human Rights Commission. “Children and adolescents feel afraid, angry and anxious because their routines, education, recreation and family finances have been disrupted.” Another major problem is sexual victimisation. “This rarely occurs in isolation and is often associated with other forms of violence, such as physical abuse, emotional abuse, neglect and family violence, with 25% to 45% of children in  SA witnessing domestic violence perpetrated by their mother’s intimate partner,” according to the research. Other notable statistics — some worrying and some encouraging — include: “Most children and young people in  SA experience ongoing violence and multiple adversities. There is  no easy solution or quick fix in terms of violence prevention and treatment of the effects of violence on child and adolescent mental health,” the Gauge concludes. TimesLIVE