Johannesburg residents witnessed debris believed to be from a Russian space rocket falling to earth at the weekend. Carmel Ives, vice-chairperson of the Astronomical Society of SA (Assa), said she spotted the “space junk” deorbiting from Midrand at 10.56pm, adding  it was from a Russian SL-4 rocket upper stage. “You can tell it is space junk because of the speed at which it moves” she said. But what if space junk fell onto a town or property? Who would be held responsible? The article below, published by The Conversation in May 2021, answers some of the questions: On May 8 2021, a piece of space junk from a Chinese rocket fell uncontrolled back to earth and landed in the Indian Ocean near the Maldives. A year ago, in May 2020, another Chinese rocket met the same fate when it plummeted out of control into the waters off the West African coast. No-one knew when or where either of these pieces of space junk were going to hit, so it was a relief when neither crashed on land nor injured anyone. Space debris is any nonfunctional human-made object in space. As a professor of space and society focused on space governance, I’ve noticed  there are three questions the public always asks when falling space debris gets into the news. Could this have been prevented? What would have happened if there was damage? How will new commercial companies be regulated as space activities and launches increase exponentially? For space law to be effective, it needs to do three things. First, regulation must prevent as many dangerous situations from occurring as possible. Second, there needs to be a way to monitor and enforce compliance.  Finally, laws need to lay out a framework for responsibility and liability if things do go wrong. How do current laws and treaties around space stack up? They do OK, but interestingly, looking at environmental law  on earth may give some ideas on how to improve the  legal regime with respect to space debris. Imagine that instead of landing in the ocean, the recent Chinese rocket crashed into your house while you were at work. What would law allow you to do? According to the 1967 Outer Space Treaty and 1972 Liability Convention, both adopted by the UN, this would be a government-to-government issue. The treaties declare  states are internationally responsible and liable for any damage caused by a spacecraft — even if the damage was caused by a private company from that state. According to these laws, your country wouldn’t  need to prove  someone had done something wrong if a space object or its component parts caused damage on the surface of the earth or to  aircraft in flight. Basically, if a piece of space junk from China landed on your house, your own country’s government would make a claim for compensation through diplomatic channels and then pay you — if they chose to make the claim at all. While the chances are slim to none that a broken satellite will land on your house, space debris has crashed onto land. In 1978, the Soviet Cosmos 954 satellite fell into a barren region of Canada’s Northwest Territories. When it crashed, it spread radioactive debris from its onboard nuclear reactor over a wide swath of land. A joint Canadian-American team began a cleanup effort that cost  more than CAD$14m. The Canadians requested CAD$6m from the Soviet Union, but the Soviets paid only CAD$3m in the final settlement. This was the first — and only – time the Liability Convention has been used when a spacecraft from one country crashed in another. When the Liability Convention was put into use in this context, four governing norms emerged. Countries have a duty to: There have been other instances where space junk has crashed back to earth, most notably when Skylab, a US space station, fell and broke up over the Indian Ocean and uninhabited parts of Western Australia in 1979. A local government jokingly fined Nasa AUS$400  for littering, a fine  Nasa ignored, though it was eventually paid by an American radio host in 2009. Despite this and other incidences, Canada remains the only country to put the Liability Convention to use. However, if you owned a small orbiting satellite that got hit by a piece of space junk, you and your government would have to prove who was at fault. Currently, though, there is no globally co-ordinated space traffic management system. With tens of thousands of tracked pieces of debris in orbit, and multitudes of smaller, untrackable pieces, working out what destroyed your satellite would be  very difficult. Current space law has worked so far because the issues have been few and far between and have been dealt with diplomatically. As more and more spacecraft take flight, the risks to property or life will inevitably increase and the Liability Convention may get more use. Risks to life and property are not the only concerns about a busy sky. While launch providers, satellite operators and insurance companies care about the problem of space debris for its effect on space operations, space sustainability advocates argue  the environment of space has value itself and faces a much greater risk of harm than individuals on earth. The mainstream view is that degrading the environment on earth through pollution or mismanagement is bad because of its negative impact on the environment or living beings. The same is true for space, even if there is no clear direct victim or physical harm. In the Cosmos 954 settlement, the Canadians claimed  since the Soviet satellite deposited hazardous radioactive debris in Canadian territory, this constituted “damage to property” within the meaning of the Liability Convention. But, as Article 2 of the Outer Space Treaty declares that no state can own outer space or celestial bodies, it is not clear whether this interpretation would apply in the event of harm to objects in space. Space is shaping up to be a new frontier on which the tragedy of the commons can play out. Removing from orbit existing large objects that could collide with one another would be a great place for governments to start. But if the UN or governments agreed on laws that define legal consequences for creating space debris in the first place and punishment for not following best practices, this could help mitigate future pollution of the space environment. Such laws would not need to be invented from scratch. The 2007 UN Space Debris Mitigation guidelines already address the issue of debris prevention. While some countries have transferred these guidelines into national regulations, worldwide implementation is  pending, and there are no legal consequences for noncompliance. The chances of a person being killed by a falling satellite are close to zero. On the off chance it does happen,  space law provides a pretty good framework for dealing with such an event. But  like during the early 20th century on earth,  laws are focusing on the individual and ignoring the bigger picture of the environment — albeit a cold, dark and unfamiliar one. Adapting and enforcing space law so  it prevents and deters actors from polluting the space environment — and holds them accountable if they break these laws — could help avoid a trash-filled sky. • Timiebi Aganaba: assistant professor of space and society, Arizona State University This article was first published by The Conversation.