 Daily Dispatch Local Hero nominee Louise Imprey, 48, uses every spare moment to help neuter and re-home stray animals through her non-profit organisation Spay a Stray. Kristy Greensit, who nominated Imprey, said she worked “after hours and on weekends getting animals in the townships spayed and any other treatments if need be” and deserved to be recognised for her dedication to bettering the lives of struggling dogs and cats. Impey said she normally shied away from receiving individual recognition but was blown away by the nomination. She  started Spay a Stray  in 2018 after she saw the desperate state of pregnant dogs in East London suffering from worms, mange, and malnutrition. “I started Spay a Stray with the hope of getting as many female dogs and cats spayed as possible. “I believe there is a great need to prevent unwanted animals from arriving and suffering on this earth.” Her lunch breaks, weekends, and evenings are spent in Ducats North and South picking up animals, fixing yards, installing kennels, and scheduling sterilisation for rescued pets. Spay a Stray not only organises sterilisation but provides basic treatment of small wounds, biliary,  and worms for puppies and rescues in desperate need of care. “If we come across major wounds like an animal that’s been hit by a car or has a  broken leg we take them to the Beacon Bay vet and fundraise for treatment. Dr Sonja Vorster is brilliant and goes out of her way to save our rescues.” On average, the charity sterilises five dogs, three cats and offers medical treatment to over 30 animals a  week. She said the non-profit would help anyone who could not afford to privately sterilise their pets because the procedure costs R800 per dog and R500 per cat. Imprey would pick up animals during her lunch break on a Tuesday and book them into the SPCA in Amalinda to get sterilised. A day latershe would drop them off back home. “It’s a continual cycle. You need the upside to keep you going because there are a lot of downsides. “Whenever I spot an animal with mange I trace them back to where they stay and normally there is a whole pack that is also suffering.” She said she focused her energy outside of the sterilisation drive to improve the living conditions of rescues. “I try to do one mini-project at a time, by cleaning up a yard and making sure the animal has some kind of shelter before I move on to the next little project. “Every single cent we raise we give to the animals, sterilisation, or the vet account. We use our own private vehicles and pay for our own petrol.” Education is a major element of the organisation to inform owners on how to properly take care of their pets. “It’s an ongoing project. In each house we come across we reiterate how to take care of pets. “Animals can’t live off pap or be chained up. They need proper food, water, and shelter.” DispatchLIVE