Real Gijimas presented their first 50km race from Zwelitsha to Mdantsane in 2018, an idea born out of the ultra-marathons run in decades past, which had left lingering memories of seasoned ultra-marathon runners. The distances had previously been 60km, determined by the distance between East London and King William’s Town (now Qonce). The new 50km race is still an infant and will grow in stature as it builds a history of its own and chases record times to keep the history books relevant. In 2019, the race was won by Nedbank  Pretoria’s Mziwonke Ngwendu in 3:01:23 and while it was not known at the time of writing if he will defend his title (there were no races in 2020 and 2021), DispatchLIVE can confirm that second-placed Gift Chigomararwa of the same club has entered and is determined to chase Ngwendu’s course and race record. Comparing the historical ultra-marathons with running of today, there is no match to the numbers; however, performances are a different matter. Ngwendu’s time equates to 3:38 per kilometre, while Herman van der Wilt ran 3:39 per km in 1978 and Edgar Moyo 3:43 in 1985. Other previous winners back then, Solomon Pongolo, David Skepe and Phillip Quvana, who won the final 60km race in 1988, were household names in races over all distances, but only Quvana may be in the field on Sunday as he closes in on his 60th birthday. Bulelani Mgubu of BRAC, who was the first Border runner in fourth position in 2019, said that he would not be in the field this year as he had entered the MBSA 15km the day before. Veteran runner (40-49) Siyabulela Madlavana of Easy Equities Born2Run, who was second in his age category and fifth overall, on the other hand has confirmed that he has indeed entered. The women’s race previously witnessed a commanding performance and win for Nokholo Hlezupondo of the SANDF running club when she recorded a time of 4:06:25. Xoliswa Bici of Hlazo AC was second. Bici, a long serving distance runner in the Eastern Cape, was not available for comment.  DispatchLIVE did get in touch with Bonnie Curren, who finished second veteran behind the winner, Hlezupondo, and she said of this race: “I have run the 50km twice as preparation leading up to Comrades. “I must admit the first time I was apprehensive about the route and safety. “Wow, how I enjoyed it and even though the field spreads out quickly and I found myself running alone quite a bit, I was completely at ease, enjoying the scenery and banter along the way. “More than that I enjoyed the support all the Real Gijimas runners gave me, encouraging me to push. “The race is tough, and you need to be prepared, but that big medal at the end is worth it.” Final numbers cannot be confirmed but the field will be a far cry from the single figure of the earliest years in the 1950s to the 70-80 runners in the 1980s. Most likely in the region of 400 will be greeted at the finish line on Sunday. DispatchLIVE