President Cyril Ramaphosa says  most South Africans support government’s stance on the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. He made the claims in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Thursday. According to the president, staying neutral has placed him in a stronger position to help mediate an end to the conflict. SA has close ties with Russia which stretch back over 30 years and include assistance the former Soviet Union gave to anti-apartheid freedom fighters. “People in SA, in the main,  do support the stance  we have taken. It is largely born out of our DNA  that resolves problems through negotiation, mediation and trying to bring people together. “This is how our democracy was won and  we carry that DNA forward, even into global issues and conflicts,” said Ramaphosa. The president said South Africa did not condemn Russia's invasion because a “positive role is to find a solution”. He said he was happy  other countries were also choosing neutrality in the conflict. “Fortunately we’re not alone in  this.  Many other countries have chosen the path  we chose. The benefit of where we are is we can talk to both sides,” he said. Answering  questions in the National Assembly last week, Ramaphosa said: “We insist  there should be mediation. There should be dialogue and  negotiation.” He emphasised SA’s non-adversarial stance,  saying he had heard from Russian President Vladimir Putin  that negotiations were going well. Ramaphosa said he wanted to also speak to Ukranian President Volodymyr Zelensky. “Our position is very clear. There are those who are insisting we should take a very adversarial stance and position against Russia. The approach  we have decided to take, which is appreciated by many, is that we  insist there should be dialogue,” he said. “I want to speak to the president of Ukraine. We are also speaking to  other world leaders. Last night while I was addressing a dinner I received a message that two other heads of states  want to talk to SA so  the position  we have chosen can be taken forward.”