The Griffons  destroyed the Border Bulldogs, scoring a century of points to get their Carling Currie Cup first division campaign off to a great start, while EP, Georgia’s the Black Lion and the Valke picked up wins at the weekend. The Griffons put the Bulldogs to the sword, powering their way to a 106-7 win  at the Peletona Project Stadium in Welkom on Saturday. They  ran in 16 tries — 13 of which were converted — to the Bulldogs’ solitary converted score, with hooker Dandre Delport and left wing Gurshwin Wehr scoring hat-tricks. The home side held a 49-0 lead at the break before adding another 57 points in the second half. The Griffons got off to a flying start with six tries in the first 28 minutes, all converted by scrumhalf Jaywinn Juries, to give them a 42-0 lead. Delport scored his first in the 32nd minute, giving them a monster lead at the break. Delport  dotted down for his second and third tries early in the second half. Wehr, who had opened his account during the early first-half blitz, then scored his second in the 50th minute, with the Griffons 66-0 up. The Bulldogs got their try in the 61st minute through SQ Mpemba, making it 73-7, only for the Griffons to run in another five touchdowns in the final 12 minutes. • The EP Elephants got their  campaign off to the best possible start with a 34-15 bonus point win over the South Western District Eagles at Outeniqua Park in George on Friday evening. The visitors  settled first and went into the halftime break 8-0 up, thanks to a penalty from the boot of captain and flyhalf Garrick Mattheus, while outside centre Aya Oliphant dotted down for an unconverted score. The Elephants ran in a further four tries, while the Eagles responded with three of their own. The Elephants’ replacement wing Divian Swanepoel was involved in much of the second-half action as he ran in two tries. Lock Hannes Huisman also crashed over and fullback Masixole Banda dotted down, while  also  slotting three conversions. The Elephants face the Black Lion at home next weekend, while the Eagles tackle the Boland Kavaliers, also at home. • The Black Lion got their first division campaign off to a solid start with a 34-17 (halftime 17-3) win over the Zimbabwe Goshawks at the Brookside Stadium in Cape Town on Saturday. • The Valke withstood a second-half fightback from the Boland Cavaliers to emerge with a good 32-26  win at Rhino Park in Piketberg on Saturday. — SuperSport.com 