One of Grahamstown’s most famous landmarks, The Cock House and Restaurant, is to go under the hammer. Now in its 31st year as a guest house, the property boasts eight double-bedroom suites, six two-bedroom apartments, four one-bedroom apartments and a pub restaurant. The almost 4,000m² property has a rich history dating back to 1826, when the original plot was granted to Benjamin Norden, a merchant and pioneer from London. The plot “with the premises thereon” was sold to Dr John Atherstone, one of the city’s first medical practitioners, in 1835 for £850. In later years, William Cock, an entrepreneur, member of the Cape Legislative Council and founder of the harbour at Port Alfred, after whom the property is named, lived in the house towards the end of his life in 1876. At the turn of the century, the Webber family took residence and it was renamed Adelphi House for some 40 years. John Henry Webber, mayor of Grahamstown in the early 1900s, transformed the front of the house with the addition of its beautiful Burmese teak and trellis veranda. Between 1971 and 1981, renowned South African author André Brink lived in the house, responsible for much of the initial restoration work. He wrote four of his books, including A Dry White Season and Rumours of Rain in the house. The property was transformed into a guest house in 1981 by its next owners, Peter and Belinda Tudge. In 2005, The Cock House was bought by businessman Richard Anker-Simmons. Famous guests over the years include Nelson Mandela and Nobel laureate Seamus Heaney. Broll Auctions and Sales senior broker André Potgieter said the property would be sold fully furnished and as a going concern should the purchaser elect to continue running the business. “This is an excellent investment opportunity for the right buyer or investor to be part of this historical property’s next chapter,” he said. Broll Auctions and Sales will take the property to auction at noon on February 16 at the Wanderers Club in Johannesburg. DispatchLIVE