The National Senior Certificate results are out.  These results mark the culmination of 12 years hard work for the class of 2021. Receiving their results is a life moment of celebration for those matriculants who are finally seeing the fruits of their toil. We join in celebration with those who succeeded in their exams. Your efforts deserve a special salute after the Covid-19 disruptions you navigated in your final two years of high school.  The pandemic, which has so far infected over 3.5 million people in SA, has not only killed 93,700 of them but significantly altered   learning processes. Lockdowns and other safety protocols cost pupils a significant amount of quality  time with both peers and teachers. School communities — pupils, teachers, parents and support staff — had to adapt to  learning and teaching that was a hybrid of online and face-to-face tuition. Sport was cancelled  for the better part of  two years. Social distancing protocols required  pupils  to alternate   class days with other pupils, halving their contact sessions every week. Some pupils lost relatives, teachers  and even classmates to the virus. Yet, with all that agony, these young people soldiered on, wrote their exams and passed them. We salute all of you for a job well done. As you celebrate receiving your results, many of you look forward to a new chapter of tertiary education. This leg of the journey  contains no fewer pitfalls and challenges.  Hold to your vision and direction; go and conquer. For those who did not do as well in their exams as they wished — akulahlwa mbeleko ngakufelwa (never despair in the face of adversity). You have various avenues to explore when it comes to rewriting exams. The school calendar for 2022 has just commenced. For those  writing matric exams at the end of it, start working now. There is no time to waste. Education authorities, we appeal to you: do not  fail the children. Provide them with all the  learning tools they need to  realise their dreams. Already there are alarm bells of a wobbly  start to the academic year. On Wednesday this paper reported that less than a third of schools in the Eastern Cape had received their stationery from the  department; the province does not have enough classrooms;  uncertainty over scholar transport lingers because  service providers are yet to be paid  for   2021.  Each of these setbacks has a bearing on the coming matric exams. Each must be addressed  as a matter of urgency. DispatchLIVE