A 35-year old Eastern Cape man  arrested in 2021  for defrauding Walter Sisulu University of  more than R1.6m in funds meant to assist struggling students between 2016 and 2020, has confessed to his crimes and was sent to jail for  18 years. The Mqanduli man was  sentenced  by the Mthatha commercial crimes court on Friday, a day after he had pleaded guilty to 81 counts of fraud and money laundering. He was sentenced to 18 years on the counts of money laundering, and 15 years for 81 counts of fraud, which were treated as one. The court ordered the sentences to run concurrently. However, the fraudster is prepared to take the fall alone as he did not reveal the identity of a university accomplice he had worked with while committing these offences. On Thursday the alleged mastermind behind the student funds heist, Siyabonga Mhlakaza, pleaded guilty to defrauding 86 desperate students, including 15 medical students who had been allocated study funds worth more than R1.2m by billionaire Patrice Motsepe’s foundation in 2016. Mhlakaza also pleaded guilty to money laundering and admitted to having been part of a scam that saw allowances meant for financially disadvantaged students and salaries of academic staff diverted to his bank accounts. At least 81 students, some of whom ended up dropping out  due to financial challenges, were affected. Mhlakaza was arrested with three others in May 2021 after an intense investigation by  provincial commercial crimes investigator Sergeant Thembani Langeni. His three co-accused, including a school clerk girlfriend, Nolufefe Sibulele Matera, 42, were eventually granted bail late in 2021, while Mhlakaza opted not to apply for bail. Also in the dock in this case are Loyiso Siyo, 37, and Siyabonga Matshamba, 25, both of Xhora (formerly Elliotdale). They were arrested days after Mhlakaza was nabbed, after it transpired that their bank accounts had allegedly been used to siphon some of the stolen loot. Matera, Siyo and Matshamba  pleaded not guilty and their trial was separated from Mhlakaza’s. They will again appear in court in March, while Mhlakaza this week instead chose to confess to his sins. In his guilty plea statement, seen by DispatchLIVE, Mhlakaza confirmed to court that he had been approached by an unknown university insider, working at the financial aid bureau, who asked him to provide his banking details. He said because he was desperate for money as he was unemployed, he did not ask  questions and instead forwarded his details. This had resulted in more than R1m being deposited into his bank account on April 11 2016, he said. He however told the court he had no idea who that person was. It was the state’s case that Mhlakaza had in 2016 obtained confidential information on the 15 medical students awarded bursaries by the Motsepe Foundation. He then pretended to be a WSU employee and sent, through a fake email, fake financial statements to the foundation, which he also provided with his own banking details, before two amounts of more than R1m were deposited. Some of that money was later transferred to six of his other bank accounts, and to those belonging to his co-accused. Mhlakaza also told the court  how he had defrauded Intellimali, a private  company that specialises in the payment and administration of student funds on behalf of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme. He said he had done this by making a number of phone calls to Intellimali, pretending to be the 81 affected students and  asking them to change bank account details already provided so he could fraudulently divert such funds to his own bank accounts. This was despite Mhlakaza, who is a Rhodes University B Pharm dropout, not being a student at WSU. The fraudster has a previous conviction of shoplifting in Makhanda. WSU launched an internal investigation in 2021 after an alarm was raised by one of the students, whose allowance was not paid into her account. The investigation revealed that funds from the Motsepe Foundation and NSFAS had  been diverted to Mhlakaza and other people. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Luxolo Tyali on Friday said prosecutor Ncedo Buso had implored the court to sentence Mhlakaza to a direct imprisonment term of not less than 15 years. “He argued that not even a single cent of the money defrauded and laundered by Mhlakaza had been recovered. The prosecutor added that Mhlakaza’s admission of guilt was not a sign of remorse, he just saw that the evidence against him was overwhelming. “Delivering the sentence, magistrate Shylock Ndengezi agreed with the prosecutor and warned WSU officials who were in the court gallery that the mastermind behind the elaborate scam was still unknown and within their midst, because Mhlakaza is refusing to reveal his identity,” Tyali said. In sentencing Mhlakaza, Ndengezi said: “It’s worrisome that your conduct had far-reaching devastating consequences for the future of poor students.” Contacted for comment on Friday, WSU vice-chancellor Rusheilla Songca said she was not aware of Mhlakaza’s sentencing. Songca promised to consult and come back to DispatchLIVE, but she had not done so by the time of writing. DispatchLIVE