School water polo will take centre stage as the annual Selborne College Vides Tournament is contested at Selborne College and Primary from Friday morning. A total of 20 of the country’s leading school teams will battle it out for glory over three action-packed days finishing with the final on Sunday morning. The event is the is the oldest schoolboy water polo tournament in SA. The event is always hosted by Selborne College in East London in February. “It is with great excitement that Selborne College celebrates our 150th anniversary in 2022 by hosting the 46th edition of SA’s oldest schoolboy water polo tournament,” Selborne first team coach and master in charge of water polo Ridge Snelling said. “Tournaments of this stature allow players and coaches to create many memorable moments in and out the pool. “We are also honoured to have [old Selbornian] Vaughn Marlow  join us as our guest of honour for this year’s tournament. “Marlow was recently appointed SA men’s water polo coach and is also coaching the Paul Roos team competing at this year’s Vides. “Selborne have not won the tournament in recent years, and they aim to remedy that this weekend. “The last time Selborne won Vides was in 2017 and we are hoping to change that this year. “The team has put in a lot of effort in preparation to do so,” Snelling said. “Vides is the highlight of the Selborne water polo calendar and the team is looking forward to playing against some of the best water polo playing schools in the country. “We are fortunate enough and blessed to have Standard Bank as our title sponsor this year and we encourage spectators and supporters to come out and support the teams competing, especially after no sports for so long due to Covid-19.” The tournament will also be live streamed by SuperSport Schools via their app. Friday’s action will start with Selborne playing Reddam Cape Town at 7am and play will continue until just after 8pm. Saturday’s playoffs run from 8am until 6.30pm and Sunday’s final will happen at 11am. The schools taking part are: Clifton, Crawford Lonehill, Glenwood, Grey College, Grey High A, Grey High B, Jeppe, Kingswood, Michaelhouse, Paul Roos, Pearson, Reddam (CT), Reddam (Gauteng), SACS, Selborne A, Selborne Collegians, St Albans, St Andrew's A, St Benedicts, Stirling DispatchLIVE