Here's what you need to know about the Ukraine crisis right now: * Russia launched an all-out invasion of Ukraine by land, air and sea on Thursday, the biggest attack by one state against another in Europe since World War 2. * Russian President Vladimir Putin says his aim is to demilitarise and “denazify” Ukraine. * Missiles rained down on Ukrainian cities and explosions were heard near the capital Kyiv. * Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky appealed to world leaders to impose all possible sanctions, saying Putin wanted to destroy the Ukrainian state. * The EU  will freeze Russian assets, halt access of its banks to the European financial market and target “Kremlin interests” over its “barbaric attack”, senior officials said. * US President Joe Biden said Washington and its allies would impose “severe sanctions” over what he called Putin's “premeditated war”. * Ukraine's military said it destroyed four Russian tanks near the eastern city of Kharkiv, killed 50 troops near a town in the Luhansk region and downed a sixth Russian aircraft. * Central European countries started preparations to receive people fleeing Ukraine, as dozens of cars queued on the Moldovan border. * President Tayyip Erdogan told Putin that Turkey did not recognise steps against Ukraine's territorial integrity, Erdogan's office said. * China rejected calling Russia's moves on Ukraine an “invasion” and urged all sides to exercise restraint. * Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko proposed that Russia and Ukraine hold talks in Minsk, the RIA news agency reported. * Ukraine closed its airspace to civilian flights. * Russia suspended movement of commercial vessels in the Azov sea, officials said. * European stocks plunged 3% as investors dumped riskier assets. Russia's rouble hit an all-time low. - “I have decided to conduct a special military operation ... to protect people who have been subjected to bullying and genocide,” Putin said. " ... We will strive for the demilitarisation and denazification of Ukraine.” - “Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine,” Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Twitter. * Biden will meet his G7 counterparts on Thursday to map out harsher measures against Russia. * EU leaders will discuss further sanctions at an emergency meeting on Thursday. * Nato ambassadors will hold an emergency meeting on Thursday. * The UN Security Council will discuss a resolution condemning the invasion. * European Central Bank policymakers gathered for  a  meeting.