A Mthatha high school has been temporarily closed after a group of angry pupils ran amok, throwing stones at teachers, damaging their vehicles, slashing car tyres, and leaving teachers and other  pupils terrified. The pupils involved in the protest demand transport to school. Teachers and pupils at Kulanathi Senior Secondary School  at Esikhobeni village, near Mthatha, were told to stay home until it was safe to return to classes. The management and school governing body feared for their safety after violence, intimidation and threats from pupils plagued the school on Monday. Three teachers and five pupils were hurt, though all the injuries were minor. A group of striking pupils armed with stones and brandishing knobkerries attacked the school buildings, teachers and even non-striking fellow pupils. SGB chair Alvin Nono, SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) Mthatha branch secretary Ayanda Tyani and Matye’ngqina Traditional Council head Nkosi Mfundo Mtirara strongly condemned the pupils’ behaviour. Nono said the pupils who had interrupted learning and teaching demanded scholar transport. “As they attacked they shouted that they demanded transport. The instigators of this are believed to be a group of  pupils from KwaSabe village,about 8kms from the school. “The situation was scary and terrifying, with pupils baying for the blood of teachers. It is by God’s grace that not many people were seriously injured. “The striking pupils forced others out of classrooms and there was also confrontation between pupils themselves. “Three teachers were left injured and two vehicles damaged. “This is absolutely not the kind of situation one would like to see in an institution of education, where discipline is supposed to be supreme, and safety of teachers and pupils  prioritised. “For  pupils to attack teachers and put their lives at risk, is something very scary and terrifying. “The SGB and the school management decided the school be temporarily closed and education department district be engaged, as teachers now fear for their lives.” On Thursday the SGB will convene a parents’ meeting with the school management team to  find  solutions. Tyani said Sadtu strongly condemned the attack of teachers, and called for the department to speedily intervene and ensure the safety of teachers and pupils. “This is a volatile situation and compromises the lives of teachers. Teachers are expected to deliver content, but how can they do that in such an environment? “Now we have a group of intimidated  teachers whose lives are at risk, threatened by the same  pupils they are teaching.” He said a meeting between the education department district management and Sadtu’s Mthatha branch leadership was scheduled for Wednesday. Nono said this was the second incident in three years in which teachers were assaulted by angry pupils demanding scholar transport to and from  Kulanathi High School. “They demanded pupils from KuMbozwana, Kunyokunala, and EmaZizini to have scholar transport and it was provided soon after .But, like on Monday, they just embarked on a strike, attacking teachers and lashed tyres of their vehicles demanding scholar transport to take them from their village to the school,” Nono said. Mtirara lashed out at the striking pupils. “Teachers have nothing to do with scholar transport; they do not provide school transport, but provide teaching. “Parents must stand up and put a stop to this before it becomes nastier than it already is. The law must take its course.” Education spokesperson Malibongwe Mtima confirmed the incident. "Police were summoned to calmed the situation after the learners became violent and attacked teachers and vehicles. The pupils are demanding scholar transport. We understand the pain. But as education department we have only been allowed to ferry  only 103, 000 pupils in the province while we have more than that numbers," Mtima said. He said officials from the Education department provincial office, the district and also from transport department's scholar transport section would have meeting at  Kulanathi High School on Thursday with SGB, learners and teachers to give clarity on the issue. He said some pupils were being ferried and others were not. Police spokesperson Warrant Officer Majola Nkohli said  they were investigating a case of common assault and malicious damage to property. "It is alleged that a group of unknown children pelted an educator's vehicle with stones, as he was traveling near Bhityi clinic.  It is said that the victim sustained injuries and his vehicle was also damaged. The motive for the attack is unknown. Police are urging anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects to contact Bhityi Police Station on 047 538 9900.” DispatchLIVE