The EFF has shared video clips of party leader Julius Malema calling on  government to respond to the rise in  cash-in-transit (CIT) heists, warning police and members of the  military are also behind the criminal operations. Both clips are from  state of the nation address debates, with the most recent  this year’s debate which took place  in the Cape Town City Hall. The EFF  called Malema  “a lone voice calling for a firm hand against criminals who operate  CIT heists”. In one  clip, Malema can be heard addressing a degeneration in  crime levels, with a particular emphasis on  “uncontrollable”  CIT heists. Malema blamed President Cyril Ramaphosa for treating criminals with kid gloves. He also lamented the killing of “honourable and innocent security personnel” during heists. “The Hawks are participating in CIT heists. Army people  are also found in that. There is a general degeneration  under your leadership. CIT heists are uncontrollable because you are weak, you are not firm and criminals don’t like weak people,” said Malema. Two weeks ago, Malema told MPs in Cape Town’s city hall that the rise in violent crimes such as CIT heists could be solved through stern government action. Malema said the security cluster should use its resources to detect and prevent these incidents. “CIT heists are at a high level but not because they cannot be fought. There was one December  when police minister Bheki Cele fought criminals to the point where there were zero incidents. We can’t say the same today. What is worse, we have police and soldiers committing CIT heists, which is a clear sign of a rotten security cluster,” said Malema. A full clip of his debate can be seen here. South Africans watched in shock on Monday as a shoot-out between police and criminals allegedly  planning a CIT heist broke out in Rosettenville, Johannesburg. The Independent Police Directorate (Ipid) released its first report on Tuesday which revealed  a former  military officer was among  eight suspected robbers who died when police opened fire on them. Ten suspects  were arrested. Ipid spokesperson Grace Langa said police received a tip-off about a group  who were planning to commit a CIT heist  in Johannesburg. She said the information pointed them to a safe house at 50 Friars Hill Road in Rosettenville, where suspects had met to finalise their plan. Langa said  police  were in  a helicopter that hovered over the property while others were on the ground. “When the suspects noticed the chopper they started shooting at it, and  police in the chopper retaliated by shooting back. “The members on the ground joined in and suspects continued shooting at police officers. The suspects tried to escape from the safe house, some on foot, some in their vehicles while others jumped over  walls into neighbouring houses,” said Langa.