With almost  nothing left to play for this season after their early exit in the Nedbank Cup on Saturday, Kaizer Chiefs will now try to finish as high as possible on the DStv Premiership table. Coach Stuart Baxter said this as he shared his disappointment about their 1-0 defeat to TS Galaxy at the FNB Stadium. The defeat means Baxter’s charges have now suffered a first-round exit for the second year running  in this competition. The trophy drought that dates back to May 2015 will also continue into the seventh year for the Amakhosi. In the league, they are 19 points behind leaders Mamelodi Sundowns with four matches in hand and it will take something special for Chiefs to haul them in. With the matter of the two fixtures they failed to honour in December due to Covid-19 still not resolved, Baxter admitted it would be difficult to catch Sundowns. “Everyone is disappointed because we put ourselves up as one of the teams with the aspiration to win this trophy,” he  said. “Of course we do, and we have been playing well enough. “We are close to the top of the table and we believed a cup run was not impossible for us. “So going out brings that equivalent level of disappointment because we see that trophy disappear. “So we have to do the best we can in the league to finish as high as we can.” On Saturday, Chiefs looked flat and disjointed and that left Baxter disappointed with their performance as he felt they had lacked quality throughout the game. Baxter demand immediate improvement when they visit Cape Town City at Cape Town Stadium on Tuesday at 7.30pm. “We didn’t play at any time with the quality that we have and I looked at the training this week. “It has been first class and I thought we would give a better performance than that,” he said. “When you play cup football, you have to build momentum and you have to take an initiative and put the opponents on the back foot. We made too many tactical errors. “After the first  10 minutes, I thought we played with a  bit of structure, but then I’m sure that after the first 10 minutes Galaxy felt they were in the game. “At no point tonight did we play with that consistency that you need and that’s very, very disappointing.” Galaxy coach Sead Ramovic wants their victory to inspire a charge in their remaining DStv Premiership matches as they look to move away from the bottom of the table, starting with Swallows at Dobsonville Stadium on Saturday. “I’m happy that we won,” he said after the game. “We had a tough preseason where we worked on our weaknesses. “We had a couple of friendly games [where] we also played well and we have to continue because we have tough times ahead. “We have 13 games ahead and we are at the bottom. “So the cup, it was a good test for us and of course, we have to continue to the next game against Swallows, a difficult match. “I hope we will continue and show our strength and keep going.” Augustine Kwem’s 54th-minute strike after he profited from Phathutshedzo Nange’s blunder handed the Rockets that morale-boosting win. — SowetanLIVE 