Dieudonne Allo is the guiding light and founder of the Global Leading Light Initiative (GLLI). Cameroon-born, he gives embryonic women entrepreneurs what he terms “future-fit” skills for building their own companies. After completing school he studied mathematics at the University of Buea in Cameroon. The quest to create entrepreneurs came through his mother, who he said “survived using her brain and hands”. After completing his studies he moved to South Africa. He settled in Mthatha after receiving a teaching post there. “I set up a programme that transformed education, which became the Global Leading Light Initiative. It guided learners by providing the tools and skills to cope with 21st century and 4th Industrial demands, such as coding, robotics, entrepreneurship and design thinking.” In short, he said, it prepared people for the job market. His work was spotted by the Red Bull Amaphiko Academy, which took GLLI on the first step to success. It eventually led to a partnership with SEDA, Rhodes University and Propella Township incubator. Analisa Dyobini owns Glamour More, a nail salon in Gqeberha. She is a GLLI graduate and now gives back by mentoring the  class of 2022. “When I come home to East London, my birthplace, I see old friends sitting outside shacks with babies but with no future. They survive on grants. That cannot continue. My goal is a cosmetics factory, which will create employment. That I can only do as an entrepreneur.” Siviwe Mkabe studied IT at Lovedale College in Qonce but her job aspirations faded when her many job applications came to nought. “I wasn’t defeated. I set up my own IT company, Libricraft Technologies, repairing computers. Then, through GLLI, I learnt how to fix cellphones. Business was brisk. I then got involved in laying fibre cables. I’m from Scenery Park and unemployment is scary. Now I employ 20 people.” Perfume company Clipp Co is the brainchild of Bongeka Papu, who trained in Qonce, but was schooled in Pretoria. “My heart goes out to all the unemployed women. It prompted me to start supplying bulk perfume to small women traders, who re-bottle it, add their own brand label and sell it.” Food is one thing that everybody needs, said Kwakhanya Mguba, and “that is what I provide”. “I cook for both large gatherings and intimate functions. I also specialise in pastry and cakes. While I am very hands-on I do employ a lot of temps. Right now I am finalising the marketing plans for a range of spices that I have mixed. So ‘KK Specials’ will soon hit the market. Following the launch I intend to open an online cooking school. It will help people help themselves.” Allo has grand plans for the future. “I will create 2,000 entrepreneurs. That is a real challenge and I am up for it.”