Almost R60m has been set aside by the provincial government for  three new TV productions to be shot in the Eastern Cape this year. This was announced by sport, recreation, arts & culture MEC Fezeka Nkomonye at a launch at the Osner Hotel in East London on Thursday. Umkhokheli, produced by Jack & Jill Productions, and Kwikhaya Likabani, produced by Sisanda Henna Films, are two new drama series which have received R4m each from the provincial department. In addition, an as-yet unnamed telenovela was financed for  R50m, to be shot over three years. Umkhokheli and Kwikhaya Likabani will both be aired in prime-time slots on SABC 1 next year, and the telenovela ,DispatchLIVE understands, will air on Mzansi Magic and may be the possible replacement for The Queen which ends in January 2023. Umkhokheli will be shot in Kieskammahoek while the others will also be shot in locations across the province. Nkomonye said the  projects would go a long way to developing the local film industry. “Today is about rebirth,” Nkomonye said. “The creative industry in this province is not going to be the same.” She  said the department was working with filmmakers to ensure as much of the production chain — up to 80% — was sourced within the province “right up to the cables”. “As a province we want to develop our economy. We have been longing to give birth to these sorts of projects.” These and future projects could provide a much-needed economic boost to local communities at all levels of the supply chain. “For example, the crew has to be transported, the actors need to sleep in B&Bs. It’s an entire value chain and this will unlock economic spin-offs.” The benefits would not be only economic, Nkomonye added. By supporting projects of this kind, it was hoped that the province could retain more local talent. “We want to see our own stories being told and appreciate seeing our own heroes on the screen. “We want to ensure we go big. We are going to provide Safta-winning stories.” Jack & Jill Productions filmmaker Mmeleli Maki said it was a great honour to be working with the department. “Film is supposed to be inspirational. It’s supposed to help people want to be better.” Maki said they aimed to do most of their casting in the Eastern Cape and would shoot some scenes in East London later in the year. “We’re very excited to send our casting director back home again to find the best possible cast. “I hope we can inspire a whole new generation of filmmakers to come back to the Eastern Cape. “I’m hoping this is the start of us being able to build up infrastructure” Monde Nkasawe, acting CFO of the Eastern Cape Provincial Arts & Culture Council, said the organisation was proud of the day’s announcement. “We are a small entity, but are  tasked with a huge responsibility for supporting a huge network of artists. “Today’s event shows we are rolling up our sleeves. We are resolved to move ahead and deal with the problems facing us.” Nkasawe said money wasn’t the only issue that needed addressing to help build the local film industry. “It’s also about a culture of film consumption in the province aided by an almost non-existent film infrastructure. We must really concentrate on how we enable people to view film. “It’s not just production but also infrastructure.” In an age of streaming, many residents did not have access to reliable internet and cinemas in rural areas were few and far between. “We exist as a rural province at a time of technological development that demands that people must now stream film. “The very people we want to reach through film do not have access on a day-to-day basis.” It was hoped that supporting future film projects would encourage further development in local infrastructure which would not only allow more people to access local content but would also provide economic benefits. “We are looking at ways of rejigging the funding model for artists and filmmakers so even those films which might not have a possibility of financial success can still be supported,” Nkasawe said. Lala Tuku, head of local productions at the SABC, said the national broadcaster hoped to play a role in developing local content. “There has never been a more opportune time to tell our stories boldly. “The time has come for us to fast-track our film industry by putting a focus on our regions and provinces,” she said. “It will allow us to build the industry and encourage new entrants into television. It will go a long way to upskilling and training the local film industry. “We believe the Eastern Cape is rich with culture and we can’t wait to see the stories that will be birthed.” DispatchLIVE