Proteas wicketkeeper/batter Heinrich Klaasen does not believe the fact that SA have not won an ODI series in England in 24 years will weigh heavily on them during the final match on Sunday. SA started the series with a 62-run win at Chester-le-Street on Tuesday but England registered a 118-run win at Old Trafford on Friday to level the series 1-1. They head to Headingley on Sunday for the must-win series decider and Klaasen says they just have to stick to the processes and what they have been doing all along. “We have trained hard for left armers with the ball coming into the batters. Credit must be given to them because they bowled extremely well and they kept the length and swung the ball nicely,” said Klaasen. “It wasn’t easy out there on Friday but for us it didn’t come off and that’s part of the game. We just need to score more runs than them, I think that’s the easiest. I don’t think we need to change anything, we felt extremely well when we were under pressure the guys kept fighting after every over.” Not having won a series since 1998, Klaasen says they don’t want to focus on the past because they were not there. “We weren’t there in 1998, we are a completely new group of players and we play our brand of cricket. Whatever happens now is purely on us and we can’t bring in the past because it has nothing to do with us. “We believe in our game and the brand that we are going to play and we are going to stick to that for as long as possible.” All-rounder Dwaine Pretorius, who got career-best figures of 4/36 in six overs, said they will have to improve their performance with the bat. “Over the last three innings we reached over 300 runs every time. Obviously the batters are disappointed that they couldn’t get us over the line but sometimes bad days do happen in the office and we can’t let that influence our confidence going forward. “We have a match to win on Sunday and I am sure that batters will put this performance in the back of their minds and make sure that they come back stronger.”