Just days before 21 youngsters died under still undetermined circumstances at Enyobeni tavern, a teenager was allegedly beaten by a DJ at another drinking hole in Scenery Park and later died in hospital. Likho Mandondo, 19, was rushed to Frere Hospital after he was allegedly assaulted by the resident DJ at Kwa-L on Saturday June 20. He succumbed to his injuries on July 5. The ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in the Dr WB Rubusana region has expressed shock at the death of the youngster. “The ANCYL is deeply shocked and saddened by this heinous loss of life and we extend our utmost heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Likho Mandondo,” said regional chair Ondela Sokomani. “We remain particularly disturbed by the fact that there seems to be a war against the lives of young people in Scenery Park which continues with a despotic rampage in the community. “It is clear that the authorities have no control or lack the necessary zeal in quelling what has become a criminal haven. “The sheer incompetence of the Scenery Park police station leaves us wondering if [police] minister Bheki Cele will continue to blame victims of dreadful crimes for the incompetence of SAPS to swiftly respond to the needs of the community of Scenery Park, which include arresting, charging and detaining the alleged murderer, who is still roaming the streets of the township freely.” In a bid to keep youth away from taverns, Sokomani urged the Buffalo City Metro to invest in recreational and socioeconomic opportunities for young people. He called on mayor Xola Pakati to appoint a youth manager in his office within 30 days to drive sustainable youth development programmes. The ANCYL also appealed to the South African Liquor Traders Association “to take deliberate steps in dealing with the mess that is spiralling out of control as a consequence of liquor outlets that harbour criminal elements and thereby deliberately endangering the lives of women, children and society broadly”. Police spokesperson Brig Tembinkosi Kinana confirmed police were investigating a case of murder. Kinana said the deceased allegedly had an altercation with a friend which led to him being assaulted with a fist. “He was then taken to a nearby hospital while a case of assault was opened for investigation,” he said. “It is alleged that after three days [the matter was reported] the family of the deceased came to the police and informed them that the 19-year-old had passed on. The charge was then changed to murder.” The motive for the incident is unknown. There had been no arrest at this stage. DispatchLIVE