Police in Polokwane arrested two suspects  and rescued a regional bank manager  allegedly abducted while  jogging at the weekend and held for ransom. Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said the 56-year-old  went on a jog at about 9am on Saturday when he was  abducted not far from his home in Welgelegen on the outskirts of the city. Mojapelo said the abductors  contacted the victim's relatives and demanded a substantial sum of money in return for his safe release. “The matter was reported to the police and  detectives from the provincial investigation unit, crime intelligence and organised crime unit, tactical response team joined by hostage negotiators  started  investigations and gathered all the information in a bid to rescue the victim. “The ransom money was  dropped off at the agreed pick-up point. The suspects came, driving in two BMW motor vehicles, white and black in colour, and  fled  after picking up the money with the victim still inside one of their vehicles.” Mojapelo said a high-speed car chase ensued and the driver of one of the BMWs, carrying the abducted victim, lost control, swerved into bushes and came to a halt. “Two suspects were  arrested after they apparently  were shot. The others managed to flee  in the white BMW sedan. The victim was  injured during the shoot-out  and was taken to the hospital, where he is in a stable condition. The money was  recovered and the other BMW confiscated.” The two suspects, aged 25 and 28, who were in hospital under police guard, will  appear in the Polokwane magistrate's court on Monday  on charges of abduction, extortion and attempted murder. Provincial police commissioner Lt-Gen Thembi Hadebe lauded the team for  a well-co-ordinated operation that led to the rescue of the victim and arrests. “We appeal to members of the community to come forward with any information that can assist in the apprehension of the remaining suspects,” she said. TimesLIVE Support independent journalism by subscribing to the Sunday Times. Just R20 for the first month.