 ActionSA has called for better security for healthcare workers after a doctor  was injured by a patient at the Lillian Ngoyi Community Health Centre in Soweto last week. Gauteng health spokesperson Kwara Kekana on Wednesday confirmed the incident happened last week Thursday.  She said a male patient arrived in the facility for medical attention but was not wearing a mask. “The doctor requested the patient to sit down and wear a mask so that vital signs could be taken. “A few minutes later the patient approached the doctor aggressively, demanding to be seen immediately. The next thing, the doctor was manhandled  and as a result  was injured  on his  middle finger,” Kekana said. This incident has prompted ActionSA to write  to Gauteng health's Dr Nomathemba Mokgethi to raise the issue of lack of safety at the facility. ActionSA Gauteng chair Bongani Baloyi said the facility is said to have very little security, with no service provider  contracted to render such services. “This is unacceptable as it exposes staff, patients and lifesaving equipment to avoidable risk of harm, theft and/or vandalism and these all occasion grave emotional and financial costs,” Baloyi said. Baloyi said in his letter that  the department is obliged  to ensure that the staff  work  in an environment that is safe. “I have asked the MEC to take the public into her confidence regarding: the extent to which she is aware of these issues; what plan(s), if any, exist to resolve the issues I have raised; what counselling support, if any, the department is providing to the affected doctor and the rest of the staff; if a security service provider  has been appointed, or is in the process of being appointed” Baloyi said. He described the altercation as much more serious than what the Gauteng health department had portrayed it as. Baloyi said the tone with which the patient had addressed the doctor when he asked him to put on his mask was not  good. “The doctor said the patient would be seen once the nursing staff returned to take his vitals. The patient responded poorly, by becoming more agitated. The doctor asked him to return to his seat in the line. The patient attacked the doctor with his hands and body,” said Pule. The  doctor was caught off-guard, lost balance and spilt a substance from the cup he was holding. Another doctor and concerned onlooker tried to help.  They had to physically hold the patient back. “He pulled back and walked off. The mug the doctor had been holding was thrown in the patient's direction by an unknown person,” said Baloyi. The two doctors, including the one who had earlier been attacked, followed the patient outside to the emergency entrance. “The patient turned back, took off his jacket and launched himself at the doctor once more,” said Baloyi. The patient was again restrained by another doctor while security guards were summoned. Baloyi said the hand injury sustained by the doctor could have been from the broken mug or from the assault. The doctor has been off work since then. Baloyi said he has given Mokgethi until next Wednesday to deliver a comprehensive response to his letter. He said he will “consider her response  and take appropriate action”. TimesLIVE